MATT: Hello! My name is Matthew Mercer. I am a
voice actor and the Dungeon Master for Critical
Role here at Geek & Sundry, and today's episode of
GM tips is going to discuss some suggestions I
have should you be inspired to homebrew your own
RPG content.
[intro music]
Now homebrewing, or creating original game content
for a campaign or system, can be very inspiring
and fulfilling, whether it be creating your own
character class options or new ideas for abilities
and equipment, it's an exercise in design and
creative writing that can really improve your
understanding of the game, and aide in customizing
your players' experiences. It's also a process
fraught with many challenges, and easily-made
mistakes. Here, I hope to discuss a few of these
elements to help you take a crack at it, should
you be so inclined.
First up, custom player content. This generally
involves new player options not in the official
books. Using D&D as an example, the creation of
new feats, new class abilities or archetypes, and
entirely new character classes would fall into
this category. Now, mind you, homebrew isn't only
the realm of the GM either. Designing new spells
for your sorcerer is a fun and creative pastime
for many players, and originally how some of these
damn spells got designed in the first place. I'm
looking at you, Melf and Bigby. Which, by the way,
is there no greater name for a mage than Melf?
It's like you already know about him with just
that. Take a guess what sex and race Melf was.
Also, can I mention, his flair for alliteration?
Man, it's all been downhill since. Anyway, before
you do anything, perhaps have a decent knowledge
of the rules as well.
Now, when designing new player features and
options, first, begin with the idea. What makes it
unique and cool against all the existing options?
Does it add a missing mechanical element to your
games, or bring a fun new narrative flavor to it?
Write down the messy initial design and function
of the new idea. Wow, that was complicated and
over written, isn't it? That's okay! Now, think
about the terminology and how you can condense and
simplify it. Use existing rules and similar
abilities in the core books as inspiration for
verbage. Try your best to make it as concise and
easy to understand as possible.
Now, following the design, do some research to
make sure it hasn't already been done. Look on the
internet, scour come homebrew forums, and wikis
for existing content that is similar to what
you've designed. This will help inform you if
you've wandered into already-treaded territory.
And, if you have, that's okay! You now have a
great example to learn from and can now either
adopt elements of or the entire existing homebrew
or alter your own design to be unique against the
discovered predecessor. Just remember, if you
borrow or use existing homebrew content, always
give credit. Seriously.
Next, compare the power level and capability of
the new feature to existing official abilities.
Our instincts sometimes is to make something cool
also be really fucking powerful! And you can use
this period to reel is back a bit, and try to
balance it within the game system. Consider many
different scenarios you can see this ability being
used in. Consider any possible synergies it may
have with other character class abilities, items,
or feats that might make it unintentionally
strong. Even playtest it yourself, or with the
willing friend who is happy to work for pizza or
backrubs, in a number of stress test circumstances
or scenarios where you feel it could be exploited.
Then, record your feedback, and adjust or tweak
the ability to better fit within the existing
boundaries of the game system’s balance.
When designing new character classes, repeat the
above steps for each new feature once you've
completed the initial design. I know, it's a
lengthy process, but it's also extremely important
to ensure you both learn about the core boundaries
of the system’s intended balance, and it helps you
end up feeling like you've made something wholly
unique and fresh.
The next step will require some bravery, and while
not required, I highly recommend it. Post your
design on the internet for feedback. There are
some amazing communities that enjoy and focus on
homebrew content, and aiding in its creation. Like
Reddit's D&D Homebrew, or Unearthed Arcana
Communities. Many experienced designers, with a
keen eye for the pitfalls of early homebrew can
quickly help you shape up your design. Some of
these same people can sometimes be rather blunt
and dry with their feedback. But know it comes
from a place of honest intent to help. And don't
take any of it personally please. We are all in
these places of the web to share and learn.
Now, when you're feeling confident in your design,
go ahead and offer it to your players. Have them
take a read and perhaps one or more may with to
give it a spin in the future. If not, no worries.
You have plenty of NPCs who can bring it on down
the road.
There are also emerging places where you can
upload your homebrew content for others to use and
enjoy. The aforementioned reddit communities also
enjoy completed homebrew releases, as well as the
DM's Guild at dmsguild.com, an official community
open store where you can upload your completed D&D
content for the community to purchase, write, and
utilize. Even possibly make you a little pocket
change. I would recommend you read the guidelines
for such places before uploading to ensure the
quality of the materials you present and the legal
details are kosher with you. This is also a great
resource for researching any existing content that
may be similar to your design in earlier stages.
Now if you are a player designing new abilities,
items, or spells for your character to utilize,
you can go through all these same steps, but you
have one big difference. You need to also work
with your GM and their approval. They will be a
great resources, and really the only needed source
to use this for your home game, through the
process. And it's their final approval you need
before you can use any of your designs. Let them
know early of your intent. I hope these have been
helpful for you and any other tips you may have
picked up in this video. Thank you so much for
watching, and I'll see you on the internet.
[music]